I've got to get the post on Sunday with you.
WBCNFN.
You know that.
That's 20.30.
Michael Spitzer will pick you up at your hotel.
Do you know him?
You've got to do it, you've got to do it.
No, Novokov, what horrifies me about Novokov
manic attention he gives the books.
I thought he was right, but he's read the damn thing so suddenly.
And the first thing you see in Don Quixote is a drawing of a window.
What did you say in the earlier books was the drawing of the insects?
That's right.
Well, the drawing of... The outlining of the room and place the furniture where he tells you it could be.
He had this drawing of Charles Beauvalier's cap, you know, that's what he did.
He's like a wedding cake.
Which I think is a fine way to approach a book.
Do you think he should really try?
Or do you think he's maybe concentrating too much?
No, he had this... I've met him a few times.
I rather liked him, but he was a difficult man.
A difficult, very difficult.
You rather liked my work, which was a help.
You've read my book.
No, please drop in.
My mind was not unlike his, despite everything else.
The problem was he spoke in English.
His English was so heavily accented, which I could never understand.
He didn't seem to have a delicacy of ear to moderate that.
To moderate his phonemic system, he spoke many languages very well.
French is French, but always with a strong Russian accent.
It didn't seem to affect the writing.
It didn't.
Let's really understand.
If you remember the opening of Lolita, you described the first time in
In fiction you get a phonetic description, a fairly exact one.
The name Lolita is described as how you say it.
Lolita.
And yes, he couldn't hear.
But he had this manic.
concern with the appearance.
I think this came from being a lepidopter, the mere examination of butterflies.
Well, I think that's why he loved the Metamorphosis so much.
That and chess, you know, the word games.
He invented Russian Scrabble.
He invented Scrabble in Russia.
I've never caught on in Soviet Union, but great chess players, great chess players, terribly brilliant chess players.
Are you asked frequently to comment on the state-of-the-art fiction writers who you enjoy?
Well, I have to be very unpatriotic about that.
I don't think we're doing very much in Britain.
I can explain why.
I think that in America,
The big things happen, you know.
Have you read Mailer's New Book, Ancient Evenings?
I'm having trouble with it.
I know.
Well, I've been reading it here, but I've got to go home.
I'm sorry.
I'm into it.
I'm about 200 pages.
How are you getting on with it?
Badly.
Well, Benjamin DeMotts, who's not far from here, he's with Amherst.
I met him at Amherst about 30 years ago.
He did this review in the New York Times, Sunday Times.
He says it's a disaster.
But, you see, the point is, I say, all right, that's not the point.
If you compare that with anything that's produced in Britain, or indeed in Europe, generally,
Such terms, I have no idea.
This ambitious project, maybe, that's not the point at all.
The point is that this kind of book comes out of history.
Doesn't come out of history.
I mean, I think the man, pardon my use of the word, doesn't have such walls.
That's it.
Are you familiar with that expression?
I mean, dude.
But he took some courage, I think.
What is it?
I don't know why he wrote it.
I cannot work out why he wrote it.
Why Egypt?
I had lunch with him with a group of other critics in New York in January, and he didn't really answer very satisfactorily there.
I don't know if he could.
I don't think he can.
It all started, he said, 12 years ago.
He was in Egypt, and he stole a client at the top of the pyramid.
He's read a lot.
He's done a lot of research.
Well, that bogs it down, though.
Yes, he does.
It's not a simulation.
Aristotle would quote, I mean, for the lack of action.
Well, you see, when you compare that with a book that is probably less well-regarded by Gore Vidal, you know, Creation, the last week.
I didn't like it.
I didn't dislike it because I saw what he was driving at.
It's too fascinating to not use fiction.
The fact that you have Zoroastrianism, Buddhism and Confucianism all beginning at exactly the same time is too fascinating.
I can see the point there.
But this, again, is a very American thing.
Only Americans are willing to look at the past and, you know, write something big about it.
I don't know what the heck's wrong with us in Britain.
I got out of Britain, remember.
I don't live there.
I got out in 1968 when my first wife died and I remade.
He made an Italian girl.
And this drew me to the Mediterranean.
I've not really regretted it.
I go back to London.
I'll be going back after this trip for a couple of days.
It's a foreign city to me, totally foreign, and highly parochial.
Great city, big city.
Highly parochial, highly parochial.
I think New York's a bit the same.
But there are big bits coming in, I think.
Why is that?
I mean, how long has this been going on?
It's been a long time.
It's been going on, I think, since the beginning of the century.
uh even bad big books you like Anthony adverse and things forever amber you know all right, but there's a kind of gusto kind of energy. Which goes back to what you were saying earlier then perhaps now you're asked very conservative. Well the point is not tinkering too much, with no it's a terrible thing to say, but it's your language. No it's not our language anymore. Thank you very much. Could I have some more tea?
It's your language, you see.
The American version of English contains that.
Look, put it on my bill.
It doesn't matter.
It's either my newspaper or your publisher.
Well, you can justify it.
I probably can't.
Why are you buying two records?
Why are you eating so much?
All I need is a receipt.
I'll put it on my voucher.
Don't you feel that?
I mean, what have you read out of England?
Do you know why I enjoyed P.D.
James?
I don't even read him.
She, that's a she.
Exactly.
Shows how little I know.
It's like saying, even in war, I never read it.
I don't like media.
I don't like reading novels.
P.D.
James, I don't even know what she is.
There's Kingsley Amos' son.
Martin, yes.
Well, he's a good writer.
He's become very American.
But I didn't care for his child.
I shouldn't say that.
No, his new novel is about New York.
He spent several months here.
That's when I talked to him.
Researching, I guess.
Do you like the man?
Do you like him?
I didn't spend that much time with him to tell.
He's all right.
You're very kind.
Thank you very much.
That's about right.
Yeah.
We don't want to incriminate ourselves.
Not very much.
No, there's...
There's a young Indian writer who produced a book called Midnight's Children, which is a man called Salman Rushdie.
It's not Anglo-Saxons who are writing something, it's Indians, Chinese, Japanese.
There was a beautiful book that came out last Christmas time from Abrams, but I think it was a reprint from Thames and Hudson.
the English world.
Did you see it?
It's beautiful.
No, I know that.
It's extraordinary photographs.
I know what sort of thing you mean.
Pithy little essays, but... Yes, well, they're bringing out a book, which they should not be bringing out, in my opinion.
During the war, when we were embattled, you know, before America came into the war, when Hitler was going to invade,
We're producing a lot of books about the English countryside and about English culture, English habit, what we are fighting for, and they've produced a series of short books about literature, like Graham Greene on the drama, somebody else on poetry, somebody else on the novel, and very foolishly they're bringing these things out again.
But you can see how, if you look back,
When they're dealing with poetry, for example, there's no mention of Gerard Manny Hopkins.
Why?
Because he was a Jesuit, therefore a kind of foreigner.
He might have been on the side of Hitler.
There's a terrible parochial attitude, which is eternised.
You know, to want to bring out that book again, it's Tamsin Hudson, bring that damn book out again.
They asked me to do the preface and the posthule, you know,
kind of hindsight, and everything I said was unacceptable.
He said, no, you can't say that Mr. Green misquote, or you can't say that Elizabeth Bowen is foolish, you know, you can't say these things.
Graham Green had said in his article that the most powerful line that Shakespeare ever wrote was this, desiring this man's scope and that man's art.
Of course, the other way round, this man's art man's scope.
If you thought this was a great design that Shakespeare wrote, why the hell didn't he get it right?
I said this.
You're not allowed to say that.
The establishment, the literary establishment.
I'm not a member of it.
I don't belong to the literary establishment.
There's one essay in there by Kenneth Murrowich, who I respect.
I do, too.
It was on the language.
Yeah.
and how marvelous a language it is, because it is a great language.
It's a language that allowed Shakespeare to use 29,000 different words, where Racine only used a fraction, like 2,000 words.
And he said it's the only language he could think of that not only has gone to other parts of the world, but where a whole different literary tradition has developed.
I never quite thought of that.
You wanted to compare it with French, especially at the moment, where
The French are waging an official battle, an official, an official battle to keep English out, you know, to abolish words like weekend, the weekend, the field clock, the sporting club, you know.
Of course, the same thing was happening in Canada.
But English say, you know, let's have it, you know, bring it in.
Well, does the English feel that way, though?
The English don't use English very well, he says, as the Americans do.
I mean, I notice French fries with chips over there.
Well, they're not French, you see.
They were invented by the Belgians.
It's a Belgian thing.
Have you ever read the Asterix comics?
I don't think they've caught on here, but...
The French, a very French product.
Beautifully drawn cartoon books.
Asterix is a Gaul.
And it's among the Belgians, among the Britons, of course.
Asterix Chellet-Belge shows the invention of French fries.
Pommes, apples, fried apples, again in Belgium.
We call them chips.
Increasingly, we call them French fries, because the Americans do it.
There were a number of things.
My wife and I were there a couple of years ago.
It was amazing how many different... I wish I had shot some of them down, but just little things where I thought the English were determined to use their word.
Well, the American, of course.
You'll find French fries.
taking presses over chips.
Fish chips is a different thing.
Fish chips.
What about chips?
Would you like chips with your... Your steak, yes.
Chips.
Potato chips here are something that's very important.
We call those crisps.
Crisps.
Potato crisps.
Oh, there are other things, too.
We don't have English markets.
You do, we don't.
What do you call them?
We don't have them.
They don't exist.
They aren't English muffins.
Well, they're not muffins.
Muffins are big.
They used to be when they existed.
But what we call an English muffin doesn't exist in England.
It's a pikelet.
Pikelet.
Pikelets don't exist in there.
English muffins are very American things.
You seem to enjoy writing in very many different forms.
I like writing.
I enjoy it.
It's difficult, but it's difficult.
It becomes more and more difficult.
I enjoy it.
I enjoy writing.
The novel, would you say, is the favourite form?
There's so much to do.
I'm getting old now, and it worries me that I shall not live long enough to write the novel I want to write.
I've got a big novel to try.
standing at the back of my mind, you know, as long as Mailer's, but... That's long.
Yeah, it has to be.
Well, I think the novel should be like that.
I think Mailer's right in seeing the novel as a big thing.
In Britain and even more in France, it's very little.
200 pages, 150.
It's not enough.
It's a novella.
I like the panoramic novel, but in England, we've never had the chance to do this because...
In America, you can get sub-vented to some extent.
You can get onto a campus.
Now, like Mallorca or even Bellow, you've got a salary coming in.
Right, I'll take my time over the next book.
Churn out a big one, but with us, it's always been a matter of trying to live and get out a novel as quickly as possible, which means limiting yourself to over 80,000 words, which is a British novel.
When Anthony Powell,
planned this big novel, his dance and music of time, he saw the only way he could produce it was in installments, segments, 200 pages at a time.
Whereas an American would have waited and brought up the whole gambit to astonish the world.
It's a matter of money, I think, more than anything else.
Are you working on this big novel now?
Well, I've done, yes, I've had other jobs still this year, though.
I've been doing some film by the time.
I don't know whether you saw them, but I wrote the scenarios for two kind of Biblical epics.
One was about Moses, and one was about Jesus Christ.
Definitely.
Well, the novel came first, and then made the script out of the novel.
We're completing the project with a ten-hour series called A.D., which begins with the
dismantling the cross after the crucifixion and then taking it from there, seeing what happened in the Roman Empire with Christian, Paul, Peter and the rest of them.
And I've been doing a lot of research on that.
Will have written, half written the novel, produced
a film script at the same time and then we'll do them as a novel as a fairly this is the novel the big one this is not a big one this is just something which i i get done this summer with a bit of luck
But it's a fascinating story, which nobody seems to know about.
It's a dangerous story, because the Jews come into it.
With regard to the crucifixion of Christ, nobody blames the Jews anymore.
It's the fault of the Romans.
But when it comes to the development of Christianity, then you have to stop blaming the Jews, because in Jerusalem, a lot of
who said they were prepared to become Christians.
But they would only become Christians if the Christian converts in Asia and Greece would be circumcised.
And Paul and Peter said, absurd, you can't say right now, retroactively.
You know, you've got to join the thing properly and be circumcised.
So this was a big issue, a major issue.
So that's why Paul left Palestine and did all the work among the pagans, who didn't worry enough, no question of circumcision.
being trained in Judaism.
It's all about the two major sexual organs.
We all think of Paul as being misogynist, hating women and hating sex.
But when he considered what he had to put up with, he could say, why?
A place like Ephesus and Corinth were
Totally obsessed with the sex goddess, you know, Ashtoreth.
Have you been to Ephesus?
Yes, you did.
No, your Ephesus or the real Ephesus?
The Ephesus in the real world.
The greatest Diana of the Ephesians.
What were you doing there?
My wife and I went through.
We were at our honeymoon, as they say.
You went to Ephesus.
I beg your pardon?
I dream about it, walking down that big area.
We did Damascus.
It's funny that the street that is straight, where Paul launched, you know.
The character called Ananias.
It's all there.
But this is rather, this to me is rather striking.
Nothing I'd ever heard about in church or in Sunday school.
The big enemy was quite conceivably, quite conceivably, genital herpes.
What I have is... Is that amazing how history turns on... With temple prostitutes indiscriminate sleeping around in honour of the goddess, there must have been a lot of sexual disease.
And it seems to me that Luke was a Greek, a doctor, and became Paul's friend and, you know, wrote the records.
He must have been treating himself.
Now where do you find this?
You only pick up odd hints from close reading of the text and also from reading of good, good commentators, good learned commentators who can
I don't know Hebrew, unfortunately.
It's not one of my languages.
How many languages would you say?
Well, for this kind of job I can cope with Latin and Greek.
It's just a question of what's needed.
If I have to speak the language, I speak it.
It's simple as that.
Well, not so simple.
In doing this kind of job promoting books, it's easy here, thank God I'm speaking English, but if you do it in Sweden, you have to learn Swedish.
I had to give a lecture to the University of Stockholm last year, I had to give it in Sweden.
It's a slow job, you've got to learn it.
It's not a question of learning the word, you've got to learn the intonation.
You learned it for this one speech.
Yes.
Did you retain it after that?
No, I didn't retain any at all.
Do you tend to discard what you consider useful?
It stays at the back there.
How has music influenced your writing?
All the way.
It's the art I first practiced.
I've gone back to practicing it.
Indeed, I was going to say that when this particular book was reviewed in Britain by a woman called Lorna Sage, a feminist, and naturally it was a bad book as written by a man, she said, you know, snidely, I suppose, that probably Mr. Burgess has tucked away in a drawer the score of the Trotsky's.
Of course, Mr. Burgess has.
So, when I was interviewed on British radio, I sang and played one of the songs.
Then I did it in Belgium.
I did it in Barcelona.
That seems obvious to me.
I didn't even ask that question.
The book looks out to other things.
It's an open book.
It looks out to other media.
That was the real point of it.
It's not closed in.
It's not an enclosed novel.
It looks out.
That would be a wonderful book.
It might work.
It could work.
Yeah, that's right.
Have you seen that?
Have you seen cats?
I intend to, but it's still in New York.
They come here, aren't they?
They come here, but I'll be down in New York.
I did a musical here in your colonial theatre.
Yes, it's a nice old theatre.
I did a musical version of Cyrano de Béjac, Cyrano, with the customer plumbing.
And you do all the music and the lyrics?
Well, I didn't do the music on that occasion, I did the lyrics, but the music was done by a Welshman.
He does film music, like John Williams.
Being a Welshman, he had no notion at all of English posity.
The Welsh have no sense of stress.
It's not a stress language like French.
No stress in language.
So we ended up by... He couldn't set my lyrics, he said it all wrong.
Putting a stress on the.
So we ended up by his writing the tunes, and I put the words for tunes.
But how specifically would you say the music does influence the actual writing?
Well, I think in the sense that I have attempted to hear a speech tune.
I attempted to hear a sonic pattern, which obviously has to have, obviously is a verbal statement, but I don't know what the verbal statement is.
In the opening paragraph of the novel, we'll often present itself in the form of a pattern of sound, which has to be expressed in words.
You can't take this too far, but I'd like to write a sentence with a kind of tune.
It's got Joyce's sentence.
Every one of Joyce's sentences is a tune.
It's a careful organisation with vowels.
You can sing it.
All day.
Well, I write.
Impulsive, not impulsive.
No, it's just a job.
It's like you.
It's a job.
Le boulot.
You don't say that to a friend.
If you have a cold or a headache, it's not going to stop you.
No, you've got to get on.
And of course, I don't know whether you work at the weekends.
You probably do.
Since I've been on this job as book editor, I have my weekends.
Thank goodness.
You have them free.
I have them free.
What do you do with them?
I've got two kids, and that explains it right there.
Listen, you're going to be picked up in about 20 minutes, so I don't think you might want to sign it.
Okay.
I wonder if you'd sign my book for me.
We're talking about Frank Gillette Burgess.
He invented a lot of terms.
He's a neologist, a professional neologist.
He invented the word wog, which we use in Britain to mean an Egyptian, Western-oriented gentleman.
But wog, it's a bit of egg that was on the chin of a good-looking girl.
And blurb is the word he invented for... That's a wonderful word.
It is.
The word is stuck.
It's a great invention.
Great invention.
Is it old enough to be in the OED, I wonder?
Oh, it's in the OED now.
It's in the supplement.
He was a distant relative.
Not a distant relative.
It's Guy Burgess, the diplomatic traitor.
Bad family, obviously.
That's why I've got your first name.
Nick Nicholas.
It is Nick, all right.
Nick's fine.
Okay.
A man who uses a fountain pen.
Well, you've got a... This has got a... Oh, I use a fountain pen myself.
Do you need to have a cassette in it?
No, I still... Cartridge.
Cartridge.
No, I fill this.
It's messy, but I... I can check this one.
What?
It's regarded by the Americans as merely productive as spy fiction, you know.
It's again with Ian Fleming.
That's our speciality, espionage.
Now, this new one of the Curry is not anything large, is it?
Well, it is.
It is.
I don't like the man.
I think he probably comes up.
Some, when he produced the last small but one, the Honourable Schoolboy, the New York Times, when he generally said, you can have 3,000 words.
I said, 300 would be enough.
I gave it a very bad review, which I think it deserves.
The Times was upset about it so but they shouldn't say it should well. I find this dramatic occasion. They do that you know. At times in particular will look for tell you how to do it, so they look for the controversy. This is a book by Garrick Freeman you know Margaret Mead out of the water. Well you've heard of it and you know they actually once you found a review of who they knew would be
Hostile.
Hostile too, I get that.
I get that all the time in the New York Review of Books.
They always deliberately choose a hostile view.
But with this thing I did on Le Carré, they couldn't very well change it, but they deliberately published at the side, column by column, all the way along, an interview with Le Carré, which was deliberately... They did again for this... Deliberately geared to a conflict I was saying.
Where I said Mr. Le Carré's style is undistinguished, Le Carré's...
My side is with liberty.
This is very bad, I think.
It's not literature, whatever it is.
The new one is not bad, I have to say.
I have to say.
I think he owes the reader a little more, actually.
Well, what I got against, it was a personal thing.
I don't know whether you get this.
Yes, you get it in America, you get it in Britain.
There was a literary festival, as they call it, in Lancaster, in my native county.
It's a very small town.
It's a county town of Lancaster.
It's a very old and small town.
And there were no hotels there, there was only one hotel, and McCarrie was invited as I was, and when McCarrie discovered I was there, and there was only one hotel, he used to stay in the district.
He stayed outside, probably stayed in his private jet plane or something like that.
It is mean, mean-minded.
I like other people.
I'm very fond of Frederick Forsyth.
Do you know him?
I've talked to him.
I think he's a good man.
He knows precisely what he's doing.
No pretensions at all.
I reread the book, his last book, but one, The Devil's Church.
I thought it was very good.
I thought it was extremely well-booked.
Especially where he's very happy not writing, too, I think.
Yes, where he's written a very good volume of short stories.
That was excellent.
I thought it was fantastic.
The one of not the snakes in Ireland.
Admirable.
Where is it?
It's this Pakistan.
It goes back and thinks it's a snake.
And it's a female snake.
It's a marvelous idea.
It's snakes in your mind.
Wonderful idea.
Well, The Devil's alternative he did because his wife finally said, well, for God's sakes, your boy.
Who publishes it here?
Viking.
Oh, Viking.
It's a fairly small breast, isn't it?
A little big.
It's a big novel.
It's grown.
Well, you've heard of Stephen King, who I've never heard.
Indeed I have, yeah.
I was chatting with one of their editors, Vikings editors, who was at the Clark University last spring, which is in Worcester, in South Africa.
Yeah, yeah.
And he said that... You call it Worcester, you don't call it Worcester.
No, Worcester.
And he said that Stephen King accounts for 10% of their gross.
You know, they probably publish 200 titles a year.
And for one author...
And this guy was King's editor as well.
And he's a very good editor, Alan Williams.
I can't read King.
I've tried to.
I can't read him.
I have books in my book.
But it was so amusing to see this fellow as an editor try and defend him in a literary way.
I'll tell you another writer I can't read.
I've been trying to read the Parsifal mosaic.
That's Robert Ludlow.
I cannot understand him.
The word was he didn't even write that stuff.
Can you understand?
I can't understand what's going on.
I've only read one.
I feel like I'm a fool.
I'm not an idiot.
I can't understand what happened.
I read one because I had to because these things.
When I took over his book editor, I said, I've got to read one of these things so I know what I'm dealing with.
So I can know who to assign them to for reading.
The nice position I'm in is that I don't want to read it myself.
But, you know, on the other hand, you can, probably like yourself, I usually pick up a paperback, you know, at the airport, to eat a plane, deliberately non-literature, and I picked up a book with author I've already forgotten, I've never heard of it before, I haven't even got the title, I think it's called The Hastings Conspiracies, but it's America and Russia again, you know, the perennial theme.
It's about Britain, Britain's become over-socialized.
And America is going to invade Britain.
And, you know, it's remarkably well put together.
You know, he describes, he's an American writer.
He describes certain towns of Britain.
He knows these towns.
He knows the way the British speak.
He knows Chequers, whether you're the Prime Minister's weekend residence.
He knows this.
You know, I do admire this willingness to take a few notes, which I can't do myself.
I can't be bothered.
Is that right?
Oh, I'm a bad researcher.
I always have an excuse, you see.
The last book, Percy Powers, was full of errors, and these were partly deliberate.
There's an old man trying to remember the past, getting it wrong, you see.
But one reviewer in Britain spent the whole page misting the arrows, because I knew these arrows pretty well.
I haven't seen anyone yet take you to task for a misinterpretable toy to trust you.
Well, they'll find I'm wrong on his sonicals.
It's pretty easy enough done.
Imagine a particular bank existed in 1918 when it was only founded in 1930, you know, that kind of thing.
It's the kind of era one makes all the time.
Graham Greene gets very worried about it.
He wrote a novel.
called The Human Factor, which I rather like.
In the first few pages, he has people buying a kind of chocolate confection called Maltesers in an ABC shop on Strand.
ABC is an aerated bread company.
It existed in HG Wells' time, but it doesn't exist any longer.
And I said, you're wrong there, Graham.
It's very wrong.
I'll change it in the next edition, because it never does.
He got the adjective Gibraltee, which is a Gibraltarian, which I pointed out.
Is he angry about that?
Is he angry at being corrected?
Is he angry at making a mistake?
He's angry that anybody notices it.
He should not notice the energy.
He's too big a man to look for that.
Do you think he'll win the Nobel Prize?
Never.
Do you think he's deserving?
No.
Bach, my namesake Bach is certainly the only man who is.
This Marques character is not.
That was on the basis of one book.
Marques and Canetti is another one.
Ridiculous.
The Pole, though, I thought.
The trouble was, I was up for the Nobel Prize, but Canetti got it.
That's why he got it.
I knew I was up for the Nobel, because I was in Stockholm just before the Liberations, and I was in the Nobel Library, and they had all my books together on the trolley, so I was going through them.
Who did you nominate, sir?
Well, there was a committee, and there were various members of the committee who had been on it a long time, and they had very violent prejudices.
A very fine Danish writer, Isak Dinesen.
What a wonderful biography.
Yes, a great writer, a fine writer.
But she was up for the prize, and Hemingway said she should get it.
That's right.
But the member of the committee said, I will never submit to...
The prize has been given to somebody who shoots lions.
Well, you know, Hemingway shot lions, or he said he did, and he got it.
There's a very powerful homosexual on the committee who was determined that the prize goes to Patrick White in Australia because of the homosexuals.
So it's not quite too impartial to imagine.
I don't think you have to take it.
The money is useful.
I mean, the prestige is extremely useful.
But the prestige is useful.
But when the prize has been awarded, the writer then gives the kind.
I mean, consider who didn't get it.
Warren's never got it.
Joyce never got it.
Joyce.
They never heard of Joyce.
Never heard of him.
Did they pass over Eugene O'Neill, I think?
They passed him over, I guess.
On the other hand, Sinclair Lewis got it.
Sinclair Lewis.
True.
And Beckett got it because his translator in Stockholm, I guess.
a badge of the committee all the time.
For Christ's sake, give him what nothing for him.
Faulkner was deserving, I think, when he was Faulkner.
Faulkner deserved it all the way.
All the way.
Fitzgerald, I think, is questionable.
I think so.
I think Eliot probably deserved it.
Pound deserved it.
Well, again, it comes back to the politics.
Yes, that's why Marquez got it.
Have you read Marquez's new novel?
I haven't.
I reviewed it.
I really believe one of your magazines.
I wasn't too happy about it.
Just one fast question.
It just comes to mind when we're talking about politics and writing.
I have found that so many very fine writers, when they become politicized,
It destroys them, right?
Do you agree with that?
I think it's easier for the British, probably easier for the Americans.
We're not political people.
We don't really have big political trouble.
I mean, one of the Democrats and Republicans, you know, it's not like the communists and the fascists, you know, in Britain.
There's no real party strife, it doesn't exist.
So we're not a political people.
I can't think of political terms.
This harms me in countries like Italy, where I expect a strong political message.
If I said on one occasion to an interviewer,
I think Pope John's disaster, you see, and the next day the headline was, Burgess et fascista, fascista.
They always think in critical terms.
That's because the publishing becomes ruined by political parties.
But I mean in terms of the writing itself of these people, soldier Nixon comes to mind immediately.
What has he done?
He's mad, he's mad.
That's worthwhile since... He's not a great writer.
He's a great engineer.
I mean, I agree with Goldfield.
No, I mean, people buy his work, but they don't read it.
August 1914 was not reading it.
I don't think anybody read it.
A day in the life of Irving.
Well, it's brief.
It's brief.
It's okay.
The cancer war.
The cancer war was just an American bestseller.
Irving Wallace.
I don't like the man anyway.
I don't like it.
But I feel there's something very fishy about him.
I went to see him in Geneva, in Zurich.
And a few of us went.
I was interested to go.
I didn't have to go.
I was interested to go interviewing him with a few other journalists.
And he didn't give us a drink, you know.
He would like a cup of tea, another night.
He would like vodka, you know.
He was drinking vodka.
He was on the telephone, I was around to Moscow.
On the telephone to Moscow, on a hot line.
Well, listen, you have to go to another...